.TH LSPAC 1
.SH NAME
lspac \- A tool for fetching pacman packages data in a parsing friendly way.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lspac
[\fB\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fI<PACKAGE> ...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lspac
is a helper tool for pacman, built using the
.B libalpm
library. It's main purpose is to fetch information about packages from the
.B pacman
databases and print it to the stdout in a way that it's friendly for parsing,
so it facilitates the creation of scripts that deals with
.B pacman
package information.
The packages are fetch, by default, from the
.B local
database, which refers to the installed packages, and the
.B sync
databases, which are defined in the
.B pacman.conf
configuration file. Usually, the
.B sync
databases are
.B core
,
.B extra
and
.B community

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "-c, --pacman-conf \fIPATH\fR"
Set the pacman config file (default '/etc/pacman.conf').
.TP
.BR "-d, --dbpath \fIPATH\fR"
Set pacman database path (default: '/var/lib/pacman/').
.TP
.BR "-r, --root \fIPATH\fR"
Set the filesystem root dir (default: '/').
.TP
.BR "-f, --field-delim \fICHAR\fR"
Set the field used between each selected output field (default: tab).
.TP
.BR "-i, --inner-delim \fICHAR\fR"
Set the inner values delimiter (default: space).
.TP
.BR "-p, --pkg-delim \fICHAR\fR"
Set the delimiter used between each prompted package.
.TP
.BR "-o, --output \fILIST\fR"
Set the output fields list. For a complete list of outputs, refer to
.BR "lspac --help"
.TP
.BR "-s, --surround \fICHAR\fR"
Set the character used to surround each output value (default: double quotes).
.TP
.BR "-t, --tarball \fIPATH\fR"
Fetches data from a given package tarball.
.TP
.BR "-S, --select-db \fIDATABASE\fR"
select between
.B local
database and
.B sync
databases (default: both).
.TP
.BR "-b, --bytes"
Display package size as bytes, instead of human readable.
.TP
.BR "-P, --pairs"
Show outputs in a KEY="VALUE" fashion.
.TP
.BR "-u, --unix"
Display dates as unix timestamp, instead of human readable.
.TP
.BR "-w, --raw"
Remove surrounding characters (overwrites -s).
.TP
.BR "-B, --basic"
Show basic informations about a package.
Same as 
.BR "-o PROVIDES,DEPENDS,CONFLICTS,REPLACES,CHECKDEPENDS,MAKEDEPENDS"
.TP
.BR "-R, --relations"
Show the relations of a given package.
Same as 
.BR "-o DBNAME,BASENAME,VERSION,DESC,ARCH,URL,PACKAGER,SIZE,BUILDDATE,INSTALLDATE"
.TP
.BR "-O, --output-all"
Shows every single available output value.
.TP
.BR "-v, --version"
Displays version.
.TP
.BR "-h, --help"
Shows help menu.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
success
.IP 1
failure
